New "How to retry Activities and Workflows" guide (#59)
temporalio/documentation: docs/retry-activities-and-workflows.md

---
id: retry-activities-and-workflows
title: How to retry Activities and Workflows
sidebar_label: Retry Activities and Workflows
---

> Temporal is built to expect failures from Activities and Workflows. Retrying Activity or Workflow executions is part of what makes the Temporal system fault tolerant.

Reviewer: I think the first sentence is definitely misleading but I also incorrect (not 100% sure). 

'Retrying Activity or Workflow executions is part of what makes the Temporal system fault tolerant.' - not really sure this is true

I would say timeouts and retries are a reliable way of handling potential failures. Workflows themselves cannot really fail.

In this guide we cover the difference between Activity and Workflow retries and how to use them.

## Activity retries

> The nature of an [Activity](docs/activities) is to encapsulate logic that is non-deterministic. With Temporal, the paradigm is to not explicitly handle errors and retries within the Activity logic. Instead, the Activity should return the error directly to the Workflow which will trigger a retry per the Activity's retry policy. Each Activity can have its own retry policy, can use a shared one, or not specify one at all and use Temporal's default retry policy. Said another way, if `RetryOptions` are not specified within the `ActivityOptions` then the Activity will be retried per Temporal's default configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Activities](docs/activities) are intended to encapsulate logic that is non-deterministic. With Temporal, the paradigm is to not explicitly handle errors and retries within the Activity logic. Instead, the Activity should return the error directly to the Workflow which will trigger a retry per the Activity's retry policy. An Activity can either specify:

* its own retry policy
* a shared one
* nothing, which uses the default retry policy. 

Said another way, if `RetryOptions` are not specified within the `ActivityOptions` then the Activity will be retried per Temporal's default configuration.
```

Reviewer: I think the second and third sentences could be reworded to be way easier to read.

Also maybe add the default RetryOptions

> It is possible to explicitly handle erorrs and retries within the Activity code. However, one of the benefits of using Temporal's retry feature is that it removes the need to repetitively write the same boilerplate error handling and retry code around every piece of business logic.

Reviewer: "It is possible to explicitly handle erorrs and retries within the Activity code." - would remove this as we don't want to encourage it at all.

### Retry policy options

> The following field values can be customized within the `RetryOptions` of any `ActivityOptions`:

Reviewer: Maybe link to the source?

        .build());
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="go">

```go
ao := workflow.ActivityOptions{
    RetryPolicy: &temporal.RetryPolicy{
        // Here we set the InitialInternal backoff to 1 second
		InitialInterval:    time.Second,
        // Here we set the BackoffCoefficient (Temporal uses an exponential backoff)
		BackoffCoefficient: 2.0,
        // Here we set the MaximumInterval backoff to 100 seconds
		MaximumInterval:    time.Second * 100,
        // Here we set the MaximumAttempts
        // 0 is interpreted as infinite
        // To disable Activity retries set maximumAttempts to 1
        MaximumAttempts:    0,
	},
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

In this second example, we are adjusting only the initial interval and doubling the coefficient.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="java"
    values={[
        { label: 'Java', value: 'java', },
        { label: 'Go', value: 'go', },
    ]
 }>

<TabItem value="java">

```java
private final RemoteDataActivities activities =
    Workflow.newActivityStub(
        RemoteDataActivity.class,
        ActivityOptions.newBuilder()
        .setScheduleToCloseTimeout(Duration.ofSeconds(10))
        .setRetryOptions(
            RetryOptions.newBuilder()

>             // Here we specify a custom InitialInterval

Reviewer: This code comment does not provide value.

            .setInitialInterval(Duration.ofSeconds(2))

>             // Here we specify a custom BackoffCoefficient

Reviewer: This code comment does not provide value.

            .setBackoffCoefficient(4.0)
            .build())
        .build());
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="go">

```go
ao := workflow.ActivityOptions{
    RetryPolicy: &temporal.RetryPolicy{

>         // Here we specify a custom InitialInternal backoff

Reviewer: This code comment does not provide value.

        InitialInterval:    time.Second * 2,

>         // Here we specify a custom BackoffCoefficient

Reviewer: This code comment does not provide value.

        BackoffCoefficient: 4.0,
    },
}
ctx = workflow.WithActivityOptions(ctx, ao)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Workflow retries

> While retrying Activities is enough for the majority of use cases, Temporal also provides a mechanism for retrying an entire Workflow. Workflow level retries can be very useful, such as when your Workflow consists of multiple Activities that rely on a host-specific state. Unlike Activities, Workflows are not retried by default, they must be explicitly configured to occur. 

Reviewer: Two things:

1. link to task routing
2. they must be explicitly configured to occur. - don't like the word "occur"
